README.md, before:

# Flex-Translator
Flex Translator is a web app for translating documents using AI tools ChatGPT and DeepL. 

---

### Homepage of Flex Translator
Contains user instructions. Log in or log out button is in the navigation bar.

<img width="1034" height="1125" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/de3d4d9e-e54f-4364-b484-8c10d89b6cdc" />

### Editable text translation form
<img width="787" height="1009" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6ddb7d2a-43e9-46da-91d5-6cab1e0d483f" />

Add the title to the document and paste text or upload a PDF file. Then you can choose between manual translate and automatic translate. The Manual Translate option opens the editor, dividing the text into editable paragraphs. The Automatic Translate option allows you to translate the entire text quickly with a single click. After the translation is complete, you can return to the editor by selecting the Review button. The translated text remains saved, and you may revisit any paragraph to edit or retranslate it as needed.

<img width="926" height="1125" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ad9974ab-6439-41a2-9bbe-665b9841f27f" />

### Manual Translate
You can edit the text by adding or removing content as needed. Click Save Changes before translating a paragraph to apply your changes. Edits are also saved automatically if you move your cursor outside the editing box. Click Toolbox to access AI options, including prompts and the dictionary. Both the original Finnish text and the translated text can be viewed by clicking their respective buttons. Use the numbered stepper buttons to navigate from one paragraph to another.

<img width="890" height="1125" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f8f469bf-2b13-4804-a69b-3da819fd454f" />

Two different translation options are generated. Select the one you prefer. Each translated paragraph is displayed under the Translated Text button, where the full text gradually builds up. When all paragraphs have been translated, click Finish Document to complete the process. 

<img width="1185" height="897" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f67a0594-0f12-4f19-b695-bbfdbf62a175" />

#### Toolbox:
Prompts are specific commands that guide ChatGPT to produce a preferred translation style or outcome. To use a new prompt, add it and press the ON button to apply it.
The Dictionary feature allows you to replace words with alternatives. Enter the word you want to change (in either English or Finnish) and specify the replacement word.
If you no longer wish to use prompts or the dictionary, simply disable them by pressing the OFF button and removing the unwanted word from the list. Then click Translate again to apply the changes.

<img width="1030" height="367" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6bed2a19-979d-45dd-9996-48514a42b480" />

<img width="1019" height="415" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/445d9fb2-30d6-43f8-8548-3126387a78c4" />

### Quick File Translation
Quick File Translation is for fast and accurate PDF translations. It processes the file with DeepL, outputs a complete DOCX file, and allows you to save it as a PDF. The layout, text, and images remain in their original positions. The file is automatically downloaded to your computer. This is the most effective option for translating PDF files. Note! No editing options are available, and nothing is saved to your account. Ensure that the translated document is saved to your computer.

<img width="923" height="840" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/76cbda93-e03d-4708-9004-c5537ea11523" />

### Translations-page
The Translations page stores all your previous translations. You can sort them by date or name, open them in the editor, assign them to groups, or delete them. Select a group to display all documents contained within it. To create a new group, click the Choose Group button and then select Create New Group. 

<img width="1974" height="943" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7d1261c5-c4e1-4568-996f-6cba0fa9facf" />

### Settings-page
In Settings, you can adjust the initial prompts sent to ChatGPT. These may significantly affect translation behavior, so use them with caution. All settings can be restored to default by clicking the Reset button.

<img width="716" height="1009" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/818bacfa-48f0-4d56-b428-ad3c01887dbe" />

Commit message:

Update README with project details and tech stack
Expanded project description and added technology stack details.

README.md, after:

# Flex-Translator
Flex Translator is a web app for translating documents using AI tools ChatGPT and DeepL. The user can paste text or upload a file, apply custom prompts and dictionaries, and edit the translations manually before finalizing the document.

This project uses a Vite + React + TypeScript frontend with Tailwind, React Query, and TanStack Router, and a Python (Flask) backend with SQLAlchemy, MySQL, JWT/OAuth authentication, and OpenAI/DeepL integrations.

---

### Homepage of Flex Translator
Contains user instructions. Log in or log out button is in the navigation bar.

<img width="1034" height="1125" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/de3d4d9e-e54f-4364-b484-8c10d89b6cdc" />

### Editable text translation form
<img width="787" height="1009" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6ddb7d2a-43e9-46da-91d5-6cab1e0d483f" />

Add the title to the document and paste text or upload a PDF file. Then you can choose between manual translate and automatic translate. The Manual Translate option opens the editor, dividing the text into editable paragraphs. The Automatic Translate option allows you to translate the entire text quickly with a single click. After the translation is complete, you can return to the editor by selecting the Review button. The translated text remains saved, and you may revisit any paragraph to edit or retranslate it as needed.

<img width="926" height="1125" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ad9974ab-6439-41a2-9bbe-665b9841f27f" />

### Manual Translate
You can edit the text by adding or removing content as needed. Click Save Changes before translating a paragraph to apply your changes. Edits are also saved automatically if you move your cursor outside the editing box. Click Toolbox to access AI options, including prompts and the dictionary. Both the original Finnish text and the translated text can be viewed by clicking their respective buttons. Use the numbered stepper buttons to navigate from one paragraph to another.

<img width="890" height="1125" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f8f469bf-2b13-4804-a69b-3da819fd454f" />

Two different translation options are generated. Select the one you prefer. Each translated paragraph is displayed under the Translated Text button, where the full text gradually builds up. When all paragraphs have been translated, click Finish Document to complete the process. 

<img width="1185" height="897" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f67a0594-0f12-4f19-b695-bbfdbf62a175" />

#### Toolbox:
Prompts are specific commands that guide ChatGPT to produce a preferred translation style or outcome. To use a new prompt, add it and press the ON button to apply it.
The Dictionary feature allows you to replace words with alternatives. Enter the word you want to change (in either English or Finnish) and specify the replacement word.
If you no longer wish to use prompts or the dictionary, simply disable them by pressing the OFF button and removing the unwanted word from the list. Then click Translate again to apply the changes.

<img width="1030" height="367" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/6bed2a19-979d-45dd-9996-48514a42b480" />

<img width="1019" height="415" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/445d9fb2-30d6-43f8-8548-3126387a78c4" />

### Quick File Translation
Quick File Translation is for fast and accurate PDF translations. It processes the file with DeepL, outputs a complete DOCX file, and allows you to save it as a PDF. The layout, text, and images remain in their original positions. The file is automatically downloaded to your computer. This is the most effective option for translating PDF files. Note! No editing options are available, and nothing is saved to your account. Ensure that the translated document is saved to your computer.

<img width="923" height="840" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/76cbda93-e03d-4708-9004-c5537ea11523" />

### Translations-page
The Translations page stores all your previous translations. You can sort them by date or name, open them in the editor, assign them to groups, or delete them. Select a group to display all documents contained within it. To create a new group, click the Choose Group button and then select Create New Group. 

<img width="1974" height="943" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7d1261c5-c4e1-4568-996f-6cba0fa9facf" />

### Settings-page
In Settings, you can adjust the initial prompts sent to ChatGPT. These may significantly affect translation behavior, so use them with caution. All settings can be restored to default by clicking the Reset button.

<img width="716" height="1009" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/818bacfa-48f0-4d56-b428-ad3c01887dbe" />
